# XR-Traffic-Model

## installation

Python 3.6.9 or above is required. To install dependencies, run :
```
pip install -r ./requirements.txt
```

## V-trace to S-trace model encoder

The model encoder takes in a csv file with V-trace as rows, and by default outputs another csv with S-trace as rows.

Explicit configuration options need to be passed over as command line arguments. For the full list of options and their default values, just run:
```
python ./xrtm_encoder.py --help
```

### V-trace format

see `./sample.vtrace.csv` for sample data

### Example usage

the default frame size (w)2048 * (h)2048. see next section for customization option details.

model encode w/ periodic slice refresh, 16 slices per frame, with a custom CRF adjustment
```
python ./xrtm_encoder.py -i ./sample.vtrace.csv -s=16 -e=2 --crf=25 -o ./strace_out.csv
```

model encode w/ feedback based error resilience, 32 slices per frame, no CRF adjustment
```
python ./xrtm_encoder.py -i ./sample.vtrace.csv -s=32 -e=3 ./strace_out.csv
```

model encode w/ periodic frame refresh, one I-frame every 60 frames, 8 slices per frame 
```
python ./xrtm_encoder.py -i ./sample.vtrace.csv -e=1 -s=8 -g=60 ./strace_out.csv
```


## Configuration / CLI arguments

### width / height 

`-W` or `--width`

`-H` or `--height`

Frame width/height is not specified as part of the V-trace model. Instead, you specify it explicitely. 
The default values are **`-W=2048`** and **`-H=2048`**


### Slices

`-s` or `--slices`

specifies how many slices (S-trace) per frame (V-trace) the model encoder must produce


the resulting **slice height must be a multiple of 64**. 

Slices are generated by dividing the frame height evenly vertically, and using the full frame width.


### **Error resilience modes**

`-e` or `--erm`

3 error resilience modes are implemented.
Error resilience modes manages the intra coding decision, overriding the picture coding type specified in V-trace data.


#### **PERIODIC_FRAME** `-e=1` or `--erm=1` *(default)* 

an intra frame is inserted every *n* frames.

how often intra frame must be inserted is specified using the `-g` or `--gop` option

```
python ./xrtm_encoder.py -i ./vtrace.csv -s=4 -e=1 -g=60
```

in this mode, feedack is not currently taken into account.


#### **PERIODIC_SLICE** `-e=2` or `--erm=2`

Only the first frame will be a full intra. Then periodic intra refresh is performed through slices. 
The intra slice index incremented on each frame: `is_intra_slice = ((frame_poc % slices_per_frame) == slice_idx)`.

```
python ./xrtm_encoder.py -i ./vtrace.csv -s=4 -e=2
```

in this mode, feedack is not currently taken into account.


#### **FEEDBACK_BASED** `-e=3` or `--erm=3`

The first frame gets encoded as Intra, then all subsequent frames get encoded as Inter, unless client feedback status requests otherwise.

Currently, the reported status is generated randomly at slice level, the encoder handles only `INTRA_REFRESH` and `NACK` feedback status only.

#### *Implementing a client for status reporting* :

the client needs to implement the `xrtm_feedback.FeedbackStatus` interface.
when the encoder class is instantiated, it receives the FeedbackStatus implementation as a dependency.


### **Rate control mode**

the model encoder currently only supports CRF

`--crf`

This option generates S-trace with adjusted bit size that takes into account the specified target CRF.
When unspecified, the CRF from V-trace is used and remains unchanged. 


### **Misc options**

`--log_level` 

default=0 - set log level. 0:CRITICAL, 1:INFO, 2:DEBUG


`--plot`

plot V-trace and S-trace stats using matplotlib